Speaker 1: We call it an immediate action item in the helicopter, we were so ingrained and trained that you just switch to that immediate action item. It doesn't take conscious thought, it just happens.
Speaker 2: I hear you.
Speaker 1: The twist grip back on, you know, restart the engine, make sure the gear is down.
Speaker 2: I hear you. And I just want to say something here, okay, I am going to change mode slightly, please forgive me. I hear you. I want to say to you is every vet that I have ever worked with is that I hear you and the way I understand that is for you to survive in those situations, you trained your brain, you trained your brain and that's an incredibly beautiful phrase, immediate action item. You trained your brain to respond to emergency and danger in a particular way and unfortunately, Speaker 1, when you come home stateside, you can't just turn that off, yeah.
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 2: That's right. You can't just turn that off. So when this lady, when you hear that this lady is disappointed in you and you say, oh, my god we are going to get into that war, that clash of the titans again and I don't know how to fix it and maybe I am going to lose the only real co-pilot I have ever had, you know that's danger, and your brain goes into immediate action item. And there is only two things, land the dammed helicopter and go into the cave or fight like hell and you are in action mode. So then she turns and says, how come you tell me you love and it’s like she is talking about being at the bottom of the mountain. You are fighting for your life on the top. You are at a whole different place.
Speaker 1: Yeah, yeah, totally.
Speaker 2: And you don't know how to do it. But the irony is actually it's dangerous because she Speaker 1ers so much to you, if she didn't Speaker 1er to you, you wouldn't be trying to -- you wouldn't be in immediate action item, would you?
Speaker 1: Right.
Speaker 2: I hear you. So you get stuck in a panic, my goodness this man can't respond to me right now, maybe he really doesn't love me, maybe I am even hard to love, maybe he doesn’t love me, he is so shut down, right, and you get angry, right and try and reach him, you hear, she is disappointed in you, you go into shutting down or fighting back. What's happening for you here is that you are overwhelmed with all this, you are overwhelmed and you go into immediate action item and that is usually emotional shut down. And if I am in emotional shut down, then you say to me, hey, Sue, can you find your feelings of love with me, I am like, no, I am dancing a wall, sorry I don't know how to shift to polka. I am, a what, busy landing the helicopter. You are in fight or freeze, yes. That's what is happening for you?
Speaker 1: Yeah.
Speaker 2: But what I am hearing is, right here, right now when we are talking about this and I am helping you put it together you can turn to your lady and say you know what Ria I do love you and I don't want to lose my co-pilot. I am just caught in this dreadful place by the time we get to this place, would you say, how come you just can't reach for me, I am caught in an immediate action item, I am overwhelmed and I don’t know what to do.
Speaker 1: But I think Ria believes in this place. I think she thinks it's an excuse.
Speaker 2: Okay. Hang on. Let’s just stay here for a minute, because we covered a lot of ground. I want to be here and I got it right?
Speaker 2: Yeah, spot on for me.
Speaker 2: So can you tell her because it's different coming from me, can you tell her, Ria, I hear that you need that reassurance but in that moment I am caught in an immediate action item and I don't know what to do, I am overwhelmed. Can you tell her that?
Speaker 1: I hear that you need me, but I am caught in this cycle that I can't break out of. I don't know what to do. I used to know what to do for us and with us but it's different now, it's just --
Speaker 2: I am overwhelmed.
Speaker 1: I am overwhelmed that it's not just us, it's everything in my life and I am overwhelmed and I don't know what to do.
Speaker 2: And I am so scared in that moment that I am going to lose you, that's the bit I think maybe as important.
Speaker 1: Yeah, I am scared I am going to lose you. It's not just because another divorce, it's because of our relationship, I love you and we have done a tremendous amount of things together, but can't I not know.
